---
title: 'Undeniable Signs You Took The Wrong Job'
slug: 'undeniable-signs-you-took-the-wrong-job'
date: '31-10-2020'
author: 'Artur Meyster (Founder of Career Karma)'
tags: ['SeaBookings']
---

Sometimes, during the job-searching path, most jobs seem like a dream job. But, when you start working, there are a few signs that might tell you that you’re in the wrong place. Because of the increasing demand for tech workers, employers are doing everything they can to attract skilled candidates’ attention. Still, some companies don’t practice what they preach. Feeling comfortable at work and enjoying what you do is key to achieving happiness in life. Given that, you must land a position that allows you to improve your wellness. It will help you to have a healthier and happier life.

If you feel uncomfortable at your current job and always wonder about leaving, here are some signs that will tell you if you took the wrong position. As you will know what a job requires to be beneficial for your life, you’ll be able to make the right decision at the right moment.

##  Your Boss Is Not What You Expected

Maybe during the interview, your boss was nice. But then you land the job, and they don’t have time for you. No matter what question you’re trying to ask or what you talk about, they only shoo you away. If that’s the case, it’s a huge sign you took the wrong job. When employees don’t receive support, they might feel abandoned and unmotivated. As a result, they won’t work harder to achieve the company’s goals and will provide poor results.

Look for a job where you can receive support not only from your boss but also from your co-workers. Teamwork is necessary for organizations to succeed. When employees work in groups, they can develop their skills and learn new techniques to implement better practices.
## The Company Doesn’t Show Employees How Valuable They Are
Feeling valuable is crucial to stay motivated at work. Most of the time, employees work day and night to help the company remain in the competition. If the company doesn’t value your efforts, don’t think twice before writing a resignation letter. Look for a position where the company allows employees to be part of the big picture. Some employers recognize employees’ efforts in public and even provide direct compensation because of workers’ excellent performance. Express how you feel and tell your boss what you expect about the company.
## At The End of Your Shift, You’re Always Overwhelmed
No matter how good your salary is, if your current position makes you feel constantly overwhelmed, this is an undeniable sign you took the wrong job. Admitting that you can’t deal with all your responsibilities can be hard on your pride. However, it’s good to recognize when it’s time for a break. Don’t push yourself too hard and ask for help if necessary. In the [data science](http://studydatascience.org/) field, most employees have to deal with stressful situations. [Data analysts](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbestechcouncil/2020/07/03/six-trends-in-data-analytics-that-will-define-the-next-decade/#63860abf78df) and data scientists have to create actionable insights to lead companies to success. They have many responsibilities on their shoulders, but for them, asking for help is a must. Otherwise, they can make mistakes and won’t help companies remain competitive.

To fix the issue, you can talk with your boss and see if you can take a break. Also, you can ask for help and promote teamwork. This will allow you to feel more comfortable. If your boss disagrees, the right decision to make is to start looking for a new job.
## You Don’t Enjoy What You Do
When employees don’t enjoy what they do, they feel frustrated and unmotivated. If you can’t use your strengths, analyze the situation, and see how you can solve the problem. Collaborating in projects is a good way to use your best skills. Ask co-workers if they need your help to accomplish any task or overcome any challenge. If there’s no chance of using your best talents, you should think about leaving. Keep in mind that not using your [strengths](https://careerkarma.com/blog/what-are-your-strengths-and-weaknesses-interview-question/) can take you out of the competition.
## You Have No Opportunities for Professional Development
Imagine you arrive at your new job, and you realize that the company doesn’t promote professional development. Since the competition is getting tougher, and the demand for tech skills continues to increase, having professional development is a must. If you can’t update and upgrade your skills, you might be left behind, and getting a better job will be challenging. Look for a job that allows you to develop your skills at the [workplace](https://www.forbes.com/sites/jeannemeister/2020/01/15/top-10-hr-trends-that-matter-most-in-the-2020-workplace/#4ab561ec7dfc) or provides you with tuition reimbursement benefits.

Some companies build strong relationships with coding schools like [Galvanize](https://careerkarma.com/schools/galvanize/) to equip workers with in-demand programming skills. Other companies schedule meetings with industry-experienced experts to allow employees to learn new techniques and provide better results. No matter what kind of organization you work for, as long as you can develop your skills, you’ll add value to your toolbox.
## The Work Environment Feels Toxic
Maybe the salary and the perks are fantastic, but the work environment feels toxic. If you think that the work environment is awful, it could be a big sign you took the wrong job. When the work environment is terrible, employees can’t stay focused and may feel frustrated. Because of the negative vibes, you’ll probably be in a bad mood at the end of your shift. For example, for a [full stack engineer](https://careerkarma.com/blog/full-stack-developer/), working in a place where they can let their ideas flow and stay focused is essential. Building sites requires a lot of concentration, and if they can’t stay focused, they won’t provide good results.

Look for a job in an organization that promotes a good work environment. When the workplace makes you feel comfortable, you’ll share only good vibes and will perform better. Also, you’ll enjoy the time you spend at work and will go the extra mile to meet the company’s needs. You will have a great mood at the end of your shift, and achieving happiness in life can be done with ease.
## Conclusion
Look for a job that provides you with something more than a salary. Remember that stress can have adverse effects on your health. Don’t hesitate to express your feelings and demand what you need. If your current position doesn’t meet your expectations, try to find a way to solve the issue. Otherwise, you might need to look for a new job. Before applying for a job, do some research. This will allow you to see what companies are offering to potential hirings and will help you make the right decision.

<!--<span>Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@punttim?utm_source=unsplash&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=creditCopyText">Tim Gouw</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/s/photos/job-stress?utm_source=unsplash&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a></span> -->